This video will cover the test
for creating a student.
For this test case of creating a student in the database.
We're going to send a POST request to the REST controller.
We'll verify the results of the JSON response.
And also verify the results by accessing data using the DAO.
Okay, let's go ahead and dive in.
In our GradebookControllerTest,
let's go ahead and add a new test.
And this is the test for creating a student.
First thing I'll do is I'll go ahead
and set some values here for my student.
I'll set the first name, last name, and email address.
Now, what I'll do is I'll perform a POST request
to the endpoint, to actually create this student.
And what I'll do is I'll make use
of a helper object here, the ObjectMapper,
it has a method called writeValueAsString.
Now, this is really good.
This ObjectMapper is from the Jackson API.
The writeValueAsString will actually generate a JSON string
from the Java object.
So it'll take that Java object
and give us the appropriate JSON,
and it'll include that in the actual body
of the HTTP request.
So where fed actively just converting a Java object
to JSON, and sending that across.
Once that's taken care of, we can check the response.
Here, I'll check the actual status
to make sure everything was successful.
And then, I'll actually check the size of the array.
We initially had one student, we just created a new student.
So now, we can verify the JSON response array sizes, now, 2.
We should have two students at this time.
And that lets me know that,
"Hey, this student was created successfully."
All righty, let's go ahead and run this test.
And very good.
We see that this test passes successfully.
So that's great.
So we know that we actually created a second student here
for this example.
But now, let's go ahead and do some additional
double checks on the back-end.
And what I'd like to do is make use of the DAO,
and actually search for this student by their email address.
And so this is the email address of the student
that we just created.
Alrighty, this looks good.
Let's go ahead and run this test again.
And excellent.
So the test still passed.
So we know that this actual student
was created on the back-end,
and we verified it
through a number of different channels here.
So this is great.
I like it.
Good job.